*** MetaindeX Tutorials ***
2- Excel/Csv import and export
In this tutorial, we'll see how to upload an xls/odt/csv file into a catalog,
and associated data (pictures in this example)
and then how to download data for working offline and then re-synchronize it
first let's have a look to our demo file : a list of some artists and their description
column id is a unique identifier.
MetaindeX will generate one for you if missing.
then some contents precisely describing the artist
ATTENTION date columns shall be of type 'text'
otherwise exported value might be left blank in some cases
birthyear is deduced from birthdate
it makes easier statistical study
here are referenced some picture files we have  retrieved from Wikipedia
we'll use them to illustrate our artists with a portrait
we also know how many guitars they own
and who was their favorite artist (using corresponding id field)
by chance they all like an artist already present in the list
ok now let's log into MetaindeX
we create a new catalog to store our artists data
to upload the file, just drag and drop it on catalog's contents area
then select the columns to be imported and associated MetaindeX fields
since the catalog is new, there isn't any field defined for now
but next time we import similar file, the mapping will be done automatically
our data from .ods file is now uploaded into the catalog as we can see
but picture is missing
this is normal because we haven't uploaded the picture files yet
so let's upload the pictures into the catalog's drive
same procedure, simply drag and drop the files
now we can refresh the view (Ctrl-R)
and the picture is there!
let's customize cards title and thumbnails
in catalog's Overview panel
cards title will be much more meaningful this way
and we set artists portraits as thumbnail
well it actually looks much better now
we'll suppose now that we want to work offline on women born before 1900
so we start by looking for them using a search query
we can now download CSV with this data, to work offline
exporting only the fields we care about
we click on the link to retrieve the generated CSV file
and open it with OpenOffice
I suddenly remember that Georges Sand was a big fan of guitars
so we modify it there in the proper cell.
then we save the file
and then simply drop again the file
over the catalog's contents
that time fields mapping is automatically recognized
since id field was defined in the file we dropped,
corresponding entries in catalog are updated
we can see here that our value has been properly updated into the catalog contents
*** The End ***
see also other MetaindeX tutorials for
- statistics charts
- graphs and connections
- and more ...